Types Of Coverage:
Liability coverage
Damage you may do to someone else or their property.

Uninsured drivers
In the event you’re involved in an accident with an uninsured (or underinsured) driver, uninsured motorist (UM) 
and underinsured motorist (UIM) policies help cover your medical expenses.

Comprehensive and collision insurance
Collision pays for your car repairs if you’re in an accident. 
Comprehensive insurance pays for damage to your vehicle from causes other than an accident, such as from hail, theft, fire, flood, and animals. 

Personal injury protection (PIP)
PIP helps pay for medical expenses for you and your passengers, regardless if you or another driver caused the accident.


Glossary:
Premium: Amount you pay for your coverage, with payments set monthly, quarterly, or semi-annually.
Deductible: Your insurance deductible is what you pay out of pocket before your insurance pays anything. Your deductible applies in each claim, and your rates will be higher if you opt for a lower deductible.
Coverage amounts: How much your insurance will pay out per accident or claim.
Claim filing: Directions on how to file a claim.


Factors That Affect Your Insurance Premium:

The type of vehicle you drive. 
Some vehicles cost more to repair, are higher theft risk, etc. You can compare vehicles and see the premium differences by using an online tool such as the car insurance calculator tool from Cover.

How many miles you put on your vehicle each year. 
If you commute further, your premiums could rise because you have a greater risk of an accident.
How clean your driving record is.

Where you live. 
If you live in an densely populated area, theft and vandalism increase. Rates will also vary state to state based on medical costs and litigation expenses.

Your age. 
Drivers who are under 25 or older than 65 typically pay higher rates for insurance.

Your sex. Men are typically considered higher risk and often drive vehicles that are more expensive to insure.

The length of your credit history.
Younger people have shorter credit history and typically pay more in premiums.

Your marital status. 
Married people often pay a lower premium amount because they are lower risk but also typically have multiple policies with the company.

The coverages and deductibles you choose.
Number of prior claims.

Your insurance history. 
Any gaps in coverage will cause your premiums to increase.

The main purpose you use your vehicle for. 
If you drive your vehicle for business, you will need higher coverage. If you drive for rideshare companies, you will likely need a separate policy.


Important:
But say that one policyholder in the group does get into an accident that results in a $50,000 payout by the insurance company. Then, imagine that that policyholder has been a client of the insurance company at that point for five years, and has paid a monthly premium of $100. That person has then brought in $6,000 to the insurance company. That would be a direct loss of $44,000 to the insurance company -- except it wouldn't be. That's because managed risk spreads the short-term financial burden out over the rest of the group, the remaining members of which, in this scenario, haven't received any payouts that cost the insurance company money.

